CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing Guidelines

Thanks for your interest in contributing to the `notebooks` repository.

### Is this your first contribution?

Please take a few minutes to read GitHub's guide on [How to Contribute to Open Source](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/).
It's a quick read, and it's a great way to introduce yourself to how things work behind the scenes in open-source projects.

### We actively welcome your pull requests!

If you want to update the documentation, [README.md](README.md) is the file you're looking for.

Pull requests are the best way to propose changes to the notebooks repository:

- Configure name and email in git
- Fork the repo and create your branch from main.
- Sign off your commit using the -s, --signoff option. Write a good commit message (see [How to Write a Git Commit Message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/))
- If you've added code that should be tested, [add tests](https://github.com/openshift/release/blob/master/ci-operator/config/opendatahub-io/notebooks/opendatahub-io-notebooks-main.yaml).
- Ensure the test suite passes.
- Make sure your code lints.
- Issue that pull request!

### Some basic instructions to create a new notebook

- Decide from which notebook you want to derive the new notebook
- Create a proper filepath and naming to the corresponding folder
- Add the minimum files you have to add:
    - requirments.in with the additional packages
    - Dockefile with proper instructions
    - Kustomization objects to deploy the new notebook into an openshift cluster (Kustomization.yaml, service.yaml, statefulset.yaml)
- Create instructions into Makefile, for example if you derive the new notebooks from minimal then the recipe should be like the following:
    ```
    # Your comment here
    .PHONY: jupyter-${NOTEBOOK_NAME}-ubi8-python-3.8
    jupyter-${NOTEBOOK_NAME}-ubi8-python-3.8: jupyter-minimal-ubi8-python-3.8
	$(call pip_compile,bootstrap/ubi8-python-3.8,\
		base/ubi8-python-3.8/requirements.in jupyter/minimal/ubi8-python-3.8/requirements.in jupyter/${NOTEBOOK_NAME}/ubi8-python-3.8/requirements.in,\
		jupyter/${NOTEBOOK_NAME}/ubi8-python-3.8/requirements.txt)
	$(call image,$@,jupyter/${NOTEBOOK_NAME}/ubi8-python-3.8,$<)
    ```
- Test the changes locally, by manually running the `$ make jupyter-${NOTEBOOK_NAME}-ubi8-python-3.8` from the terminal.


### Some basic instructions how to apply the new tests into [openshift-ci](https://github.com/openshift/release)

- Fork the [openshift-ci](https://github.com/openshift/release) repo and create your branch from master.
- Issue a pull request there by adding the following.
- Get navigated into [opendatahub-io-notebooks-main.yaml](https://github.com/openshift/release/blob/master/ci-operator/config/opendatahub-io/notebooks/opendatahub-io-notebooks-main.yaml) file.
  - Under `images` option, add build instructions (directory path, from(parent image) and to(new notebook name))
  - Under `tests` option, add the tests (*notebook-jupyter-${NOTEBOOK_NAME}-ubi8-python-3-8-image-mirror* and *notebook-jupyter-${NOTEBOOK_NAME}-ubi8-python-3-8-pr-image-mirror*)
  - Under `notebooks-e2e-tests` add the *jupyter-${NOTEBOOK_NAME}-ubi8-python-3.8-test-e2e*
  - Finally, run on terminal `$make jobs` and ensure that there are not errors.
- Commit your PR


### Testing your PR locally

- Test the changes locally, by manually running the `$make jupyter-${NOTEBOOK_NAME}-ubi8-python-3.8` from the terminal. This definitely helps in that initial phase.

Commit message:

Switch pip-tools/pip_compile function to use Pipfile/pipenv

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing Guidelines

Thanks for your interest in contributing to the `notebooks` repository.

### Is this your first contribution?

Please take a few minutes to read GitHub's guide on [How to Contribute to Open Source](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/).
It's a quick read, and it's a great way to introduce yourself to how things work behind the scenes in open-source projects.

### We actively welcome your pull requests!

If you want to update the documentation, [README.md](README.md) is the file you're looking for.

Pull requests are the best way to propose changes to the notebooks repository:

- Configure name and email in git
- Fork the repo and create your branch from main.
- Sign off your commit using the -s, --signoff option. Write a good commit message (see [How to Write a Git Commit Message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/))
- If you've added code that should be tested, [add tests](https://github.com/openshift/release/blob/master/ci-operator/config/opendatahub-io/notebooks/opendatahub-io-notebooks-main.yaml).
- Ensure the test suite passes.
- Make sure your code lints.
- Issue that pull request!

### Some basic instructions to create a new notebook

- Decide from which notebook you want to derive the new notebook
- Create a proper filepath and naming to the corresponding folder
- Add the minimum files you have to add:
    - Pipfile with the additional packages
    - Generate the Pipfile lock by running `pipenv lock` to the corresponding pipfile directory
    - Dockefile with proper instructions
    - Kustomization objects to deploy the new notebook into an openshift cluster (Kustomization.yaml, service.yaml, statefulset.yaml)
- Create instructions into Makefile, for example if you derive the new notebooks from minimal then the recipe should be like the following:
    ```
    # Your comment here
    .PHONY: jupyter-${NOTEBOOK_NAME}-ubi8-python-3.8
    jupyter-${NOTEBOOK_NAME}-ubi8-python-3.8: jupyter-minimal-ubi8-python-3.8
	$(call image,$@,jupyter/${NOTEBOOK_NAME}/ubi8-python-3.8,$<)
    ```
- Test the changes locally, by manually running the `$ make jupyter-${NOTEBOOK_NAME}-ubi8-python-3.8` from the terminal.


### Some basic instructions how to apply the new tests into [openshift-ci](https://github.com/openshift/release)

- Fork the [openshift-ci](https://github.com/openshift/release) repo and create your branch from master.
- Issue a pull request there by adding the following.
- Get navigated into [opendatahub-io-notebooks-main.yaml](https://github.com/openshift/release/blob/master/ci-operator/config/opendatahub-io/notebooks/opendatahub-io-notebooks-main.yaml) file.
  - Under `images` option, add build instructions (directory path, from(parent image) and to(new notebook name))
  - Under `tests` option, add the tests (*notebook-jupyter-${NOTEBOOK_NAME}-ubi8-python-3-8-image-mirror* and *notebook-jupyter-${NOTEBOOK_NAME}-ubi8-python-3-8-pr-image-mirror*)
  - Under `notebooks-e2e-tests` add the *jupyter-${NOTEBOOK_NAME}-ubi8-python-3.8-test-e2e*
  - Finally, run on terminal `$make jobs` and ensure that there are not errors.
- Commit your PR


### Testing your PR locally

- Test the changes locally, by manually running the `$make jupyter-${NOTEBOOK_NAME}-ubi8-python-3.8` from the terminal. This definitely helps in that initial phase.
