habana/README.md, before:

# Habana Notebook Image
This directory contains the Dockerfiles to build Notebook images compatible with HabanaAI Gaudi Devices.  

Currently supporting the support matrix:  
https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Support_Matrix/Support_Matrix_v1.10.0.html   
https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Support_Matrix/Support_Matrix_v1.13.0.html   
https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Support_Matrix/Support_Matrix.html  


### Setup Habana AI on Openshift.  

The device on AWS with machine `dl1.24xlarge` has habana firmware.  
With documentation for [OpenShift Enviornment](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Orchestration/HabanaAI_Operator/index.html?highlight=openshift).  


### Utilize with OpenDatahub

User can use the Habana base notebook image with OpenDatahub, 
With the [notebook manifests](../manifests/base/jupyter-habana-notebook-imagestream.yaml),  
user can include the habanaAI compatible image directly to Opendatahub.

### Reference  

https://github.com/HabanaAI/Setup_and_Install/tree/1.10.0  
https://github.com/HabanaAI/Setup_and_Install/tree/1.13.0  


For further documentation related to HabanaAI, please refer:  
https://docs.habana.ai/en/v1.10.0/Gaudi_Overview/index.html  
https://docs.habana.ai/en/v1.13.0/Gaudi_Overview/index.html

Commit message:

Add support for Habana 1.17.1
- Add structure for Habana 1.17.1 image
- Fix reference to Python 3.10
- Add Habana 1.17.1 Python 3.11 base image to Makefile
- Fix references in README files from older Habana images
- Fix references to Habana official documentation
- Fix README for Habana 1.17.1
- Fix Habana Vault container image reference
- Fix Habana 1.17.1's Pipfile and Pipfile.lock files
- Add Habana 1.17.1 to Makefile's refresh-pipfilelock-files function
- Change entrypoint's chmod for Habana 1.17.1
- Fix Makefile call for Habana 1.17.1
- Add missing newline at end of Dockerfile
- Add Habana 1.17.1 images to Github Actions matrix jobs
- Add instructions to run the build and push commands for Habana 1.17.1

habana/README.md, after:

# Habana Notebook Image
This directory contains the Dockerfiles to build Notebook images compatible with HabanaAI Gaudi Devices.

Currently supporting the support matrix:

| Habana version | URL                                                                                 |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.10.0         | [link](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Support_Matrix/Support_Matrix_v1.10.0.html) |
| 1.13.0         | [link](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Support_Matrix/Support_Matrix_v1.13.0.html) |
| 1.17.1         | [link](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Support_Matrix/Support_Matrix.html)         |


### Setup Habana AI on Openshift.  

The device on AWS with machine `dl1.24xlarge` has habana firmware.
With documentation for [OpenShift Enviornment](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Orchestration/HabanaAI_Operator/index.html?highlight=openshift).


### Utilize with OpenDatahub

User can use the Habana base notebook image with OpenDatahub,
With the [notebook manifests](../manifests/base/jupyter-habana-notebook-imagestream.yaml),
user can include the habanaAI compatible image directly to Opendatahub.

### References

Repository branches:

- https://github.com/HabanaAI/Setup_and_Install/tree/1.10.0
- https://github.com/HabanaAI/Setup_and_Install/tree/1.13.0
- https://github.com/HabanaAI/Setup_and_Install/tree/1.17.1

For further documentation related to HabanaAI, please refer:

- https://docs.habana.ai/en/v1.10.0/Gaudi_Overview/index.html
- https://docs.habana.ai/en/v1.13.0/Gaudi_Overview/index.html
- https://docs.habana.ai/en/v1.17.1/Gaudi_Overview/index.html
