docs/workbench-imagestreams.md, before:

# Workbench ImageStreams

ODH supports multiple out-of-the-box pre-built workbench images ([provided in this repository](https://github.com/opendatahub-io/notebooks)). For each of those workbench images, there is a dedicated ImageStream object definition. This ImageStream object references the actual image tag(s) and contains additional metadata that describe the workbench image.

## Annotations

Aside from the general ImageStream config values, there are additional annotations that can be provided in the workbench ImageStream definition. This additional data is leveraged further by the [odh-dashboard](https://github.com/opendatahub-io/odh-dashboard/).

### ImageStream-specific annotations
The following labels and annotations are specific to the particular workbench image. They are provided in their respective sections in the `metadata` section. 
```yaml
metadata:
  labels:
    ...
  annotations:
    ...
```
#### Available labels
-  **`opendatahub.io/notebook-image:`** - a flag that determines whether the ImageStream references a workbench image that is meant be shown in the UI
#### Available annotations
- **`opendatahub.io/notebook-image-url:`** - a URL reference to the source of the particular workbench image
- **`opendatahub.io/notebook-image-name:`** - a desired display name string for the particular workbench image (used in the UI)
- **`opendatahub.io/notebook-image-desc:`** - a desired description string of the of the particular workbench image (used in the UI) 
- **`opendatahub.io/notebook-image-order:`** - an index value for the particular workbench ImageStream (used by the UI to list available workbench images in a specific order)

### Tag-specific annotations
One ImageStream can reference multiple image tags. The following annotations are specific to a particular workbench image tag and are provided in its `annotations:` section.
```yaml
spec:
  tags:
    - annotations:
        ...
      from:
        kind: DockerImage
        name: image-repository/tag
      name: tag-name
```
#### Available annotations
  - **`opendatahub.io/notebook-software:`** - a string that represents the technology stack included within the workbench image. Each technology in the list is described by its name and the version used (e.g. `'[{"name":"CUDA","version":"11.8"},{"name":"Python","version":"v3.9"}]`')
  - **`opendatahub.io/notebook-python-dependencies:`** -  a string that represents the list of Python libraries included within the workbench image. Each library is described by its name and currently used version (e.g. `'[{"name":"Numpy","version":"1.24"},{"name":"Pandas","version":"1.5"}]'`)
  - **`openshift.io/imported-from:`** - a reference to the image repository where the workbench image was obtained (e.g. `quay.io/repository/opendatahub/workbench-images`)
  - **`opendatahub.io/workbench-image-recommended:`** - a flag that allows the ImageStream tag to be marked as Recommended (used by the UI to distinguish which tags are recommended for use, e.g., when the workbench image offers multiple tags to choose from)

## ImageStream definitions for the supported out-of-the-box images in ODH

The ImageStream definitions of the out-of-the-box workbench images for ODH can be found [here](https://github.com/opendatahub-io/odh-manifests/tree/master/notebook-images).

## Example ImageStream object definition

An exemplary, non-functioning ImageStream object definition that uses all the aforementioned annotations is provided below.

```yaml
apiVersion: image.openshift.io/v1
kind: ImageStream
metadata:
  labels:
    opendatahub.io/notebook-image: "true"
  annotations:
    opendatahub.io/notebook-image-url: "https://github.com/example-workbench-source-repository/tree/path-to-source"
    opendatahub.io/notebook-image-name: "Example Jupyter Notebook"
    opendatahub.io/notebook-image-desc: "Exemplary Jupyter notebook image just for demonstrative purposes"
    opendatahub.io/notebook-image-order: "1"
  name: example-jupyter-notebook
spec:
  lookupPolicy:
    local: true
  tags:
  - annotations:
      opendatahub.io/notebook-software: '[{"name":"Python","version":"v3.9"}]'
      opendatahub.io/notebook-python-dependencies: '[{"name":"Boto3","version":"1.26"},{"name":"Kafka-Python","version":"2.0"},{"name":"Kfp-tekton","version":"1.5"},{"name":"Matplotlib","version":"3.6"},{"name":"Numpy","version":"1.24"},{"name":"Pandas","version":"1.5"},{"name":"Scikit-learn","version":"1.2"},{"name":"Scipy","version":"1.10"}]'
      openshift.io/imported-from: quay.io/opendatahub/workbench-images
      opendatahub.io/workbench-image-recommended: 'true'
    from:
      kind: DockerImage
      name: quay.io/opendatahub/workbench-images@sha256:value-of-the-image-tag
    name: example-tag-name
    referencePolicy:
      type: Source
```

Commit message:

Add documentation for recommended accelerators annotation

docs/workbench-imagestreams.md, after:

# Workbench ImageStreams

ODH supports multiple out-of-the-box pre-built workbench images ([provided in this repository](https://github.com/opendatahub-io/notebooks)). For each of those workbench images, there is a dedicated ImageStream object definition. This ImageStream object references the actual image tag(s) and contains additional metadata that describe the workbench image.

## Annotations

Aside from the general ImageStream config values, there are additional annotations that can be provided in the workbench ImageStream definition. This additional data is leveraged further by the [odh-dashboard](https://github.com/opendatahub-io/odh-dashboard/).

### ImageStream-specific annotations
The following labels and annotations are specific to the particular workbench image. They are provided in their respective sections in the `metadata` section. 
```yaml
metadata:
  labels:
    ...
  annotations:
    ...
```
#### Available labels
-  **`opendatahub.io/notebook-image:`** - a flag that determines whether the ImageStream references a workbench image that is meant be shown in the UI
#### Available annotations
- **`opendatahub.io/notebook-image-url:`** - a URL reference to the source of the particular workbench image
- **`opendatahub.io/notebook-image-name:`** - a desired display name string for the particular workbench image (used in the UI)
- **`opendatahub.io/notebook-image-desc:`** - a desired description string of the of the particular workbench image (used in the UI) 
- **`opendatahub.io/notebook-image-order:`** - an index value for the particular workbench ImageStream (used by the UI to list available workbench images in a specific order)

- **`opendatahub.io/recommended-accelerators`** - a string that represents the list of recommended hardware accelerators for the particular workbench ImageStream. This is used by the ODH dashboard component to correctly assign accelerators and tolerations to the workbench. Ex: `'["nvidia.com/gpu", "habana.com/gen1"]'`
Note: The annotation is not required for non-accelerator recommended images i.e. you do not need to include an empty array.
### Tag-specific annotations
One ImageStream can reference multiple image tags. The following annotations are specific to a particular workbench image tag and are provided in its `annotations:` section.
```yaml
spec:
  tags:
    - annotations:
        ...
      from:
        kind: DockerImage
        name: image-repository/tag
      name: tag-name
```
#### Available annotations
  - **`opendatahub.io/notebook-software:`** - a string that represents the technology stack included within the workbench image. Each technology in the list is described by its name and the version used (e.g. `'[{"name":"CUDA","version":"11.8"},{"name":"Python","version":"v3.9"}]`')
  - **`opendatahub.io/notebook-python-dependencies:`** -  a string that represents the list of Python libraries included within the workbench image. Each library is described by its name and currently used version (e.g. `'[{"name":"Numpy","version":"1.24"},{"name":"Pandas","version":"1.5"}]'`)
  - **`openshift.io/imported-from:`** - a reference to the image repository where the workbench image was obtained (e.g. `quay.io/repository/opendatahub/workbench-images`)
  - **`opendatahub.io/workbench-image-recommended:`** - a flag that allows the ImageStream tag to be marked as Recommended (used by the UI to distinguish which tags are recommended for use, e.g., when the workbench image offers multiple tags to choose from)

## ImageStream definitions for the supported out-of-the-box images in ODH

The ImageStream definitions of the out-of-the-box workbench images for ODH can be found [here](https://github.com/opendatahub-io/odh-manifests/tree/master/notebook-images).

## Example ImageStream object definition

An exemplary, non-functioning ImageStream object definition that uses all the aforementioned annotations is provided below.

```yaml
apiVersion: image.openshift.io/v1
kind: ImageStream
metadata:
  labels:
    opendatahub.io/notebook-image: "true"
  annotations:
    opendatahub.io/notebook-image-url: "https://github.com/example-workbench-source-repository/tree/path-to-source"
    opendatahub.io/notebook-image-name: "Example Jupyter Notebook"
    opendatahub.io/notebook-image-desc: "Exemplary Jupyter notebook image just for demonstrative purposes"
    opendatahub.io/notebook-image-order: "1"
    opendatahub.io/recommended-accelerators: '["nvidia.com/gpu"]'
  name: example-jupyter-notebook
spec:
  lookupPolicy:
    local: true
  tags:
  - annotations:
      opendatahub.io/notebook-software: '[{"name":"CUDA","version":"11.8"},{"name":"Python","version":"v3.9"}]'
      opendatahub.io/notebook-python-dependencies: '[{"name":"Boto3","version":"1.26"},{"name":"Kafka-Python","version":"2.0"},{"name":"Kfp-tekton","version":"1.5"},{"name":"Matplotlib","version":"3.6"},{"name":"Numpy","version":"1.24"},{"name":"Pandas","version":"1.5"},{"name":"Scikit-learn","version":"1.2"},{"name":"Scipy","version":"1.10"}]'
      openshift.io/imported-from: quay.io/opendatahub/workbench-images
      opendatahub.io/workbench-image-recommended: 'true'
    from:
      kind: DockerImage
      name: quay.io/opendatahub/workbench-images@sha256:value-of-the-image-tag
    name: example-tag-name
    referencePolicy:
      type: Source
```
